W-11862525-first-draft-for-beta-site-build-CP (#114)
mulesoft/docs-apikit: modules/ROOT/pages/apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc

= Converting a Mule Project to an APIkit Project
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> If you chose a backend-first design approach for your Mule project or a Mule application containing business logic, you can convert them into an APIkit project and expose them as a REST service. Fulfill this task following two approaches:

Reviewer: containing > that contains

Author: OK! Thanks!

> If you chose a backend-first design approach for your Mule project or a Mule application containing business logic, you can convert them into an APIkit project and expose them as a REST service. Fulfill this task following two approaches:

Reviewer: convert them is plural, but your "or" makes the subject singular. I reworded to make the text plural, but feel free to reword to make it singular.

Reviewer: Fulfill this task following two approaches: > Use one of these approaches:

Reviewer: Better in the present tense.

Author: I like it your way too! Thanks!

> If you chose a backend-first design approach for your Mule project or a Mule application containing business logic, you can convert them into an APIkit project and expose them as a REST service. Fulfill this task following two approaches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose a backend-first design approach for Mule projects and applications that contains business logic, you can convert them into an APIkit project and expose them as REST services. Use one of these approaches:
```

Author: Great! Thanks!

 
* xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#manual-approach[]
* xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#scaffolding-approach[]

> For example, you chose a backend-first implementation approach and you created the following Mule application that retrieves users from a database:

Reviewer: Something like this to tie it in to the examples:
The examples for these approaches are based on this Mule application that retrieves users from a database:

Author: OK! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule>
    <http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<db:config name="Database_Config">
		<db:my-sql-connection host="localhost" port="3306" user="admin" password="admin" database="usersdb" />
	</db:config>
	<flow name="GET-Users-FLOW">
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/users"/>
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS]]></db:sql>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
	<flow name="GET-User-By-Id-FLOW">
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/userById" />
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config" >
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS WHERE :userIdParameter == userID]]></db:sql>
			<db:input-parameters ><![CDATA[#[{userIdParameter: attributes.queryParams.id}]]]></db:input-parameters>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Manual Approach

> You can follow this workflow to configure a functional router for your existing flows manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to configure a functional router for your existing flows manually.
```

Author: Right, you are! Thanks!

> === Step 1 Design Your API Specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Step 1: Design Your API Specification
```

> To define the API specification for your service, see xref:apikit-4-implement-rest-api.adoc#design-your-api-specification[Design Your API Specification at Building, Implementing, and Testing a REST API]. To illustrate this example, create or copy the API specification and JSON example used in that workflow to the `/src/main/resources/api` folder.

Reviewer: The "at" in the topic name sounds funny. Can you say "when" instead?

Author: OK! Thanks!

> To define the API specification for your service, see xref:apikit-4-implement-rest-api.adoc#design-your-api-specification[Design Your API Specification at Building, Implementing, and Testing a REST API]. To illustrate this example, create or copy the API specification and JSON example used in that workflow to the `/src/main/resources/api` folder.

Reviewer: Is this really a topic title? Design Your API Specification at Building, Implementing, and Testing a REST API

Author: Since the manual approach and the scaffolding approach have the same 1st step, it may be a good idea to create a "Before You Begin" section requesting the reader to design an API specification (ex step 1). After that, we can describe the 2 approaches: manual and scaffolding. 
I'll rewrite this and come back to you with this option.

Author: @dhirsch1, please, can you look at this new structure to see if works? Thanks!

=== Step 2: Create a Main Flow

> Within the APIkit project, construct a main flow that serves as the entry point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the APIkit project, create a main flow that serves as the entry point:
```

Reviewer: entry point to what, the application?

Author: Yes! It's the entry point to the app. I'll add it. Thanks!

. Drag the following components from the Mule palette to the canvas:
+

> * An *HTTP Listener* as a flow source

Reviewer: * An *HTTP Listener* source as the flow source
or
*HTTP Listener* as the flow source

Author: OK! Thanks!

* An *APIkit Router* operation within the flow process
+

> . In the properties editor for the *HTTP Listener*, in *Connector Configuration*, select the existing `HTTP_Listener_Config`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the properties editor for *HTTP Listener* in *Connector Configuration*, select the existing `HTTP_Listener_Config`.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+

> . In the properties editor for *HTTP Listener* in *Connector Configuration*, select the existing `HTTP_Listener_Config`.

Reviewer: Is HTTP_Listener_Config how this appears in the properties editor? If so,

...select *HTTP_Listener_Config*.

Author: Yes! Thanks!

> . Specify a listener path for the APIkit router. Enter `/api/*` in `Path` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify a listener path for the APIkit router by entering `/api/*` in `Path` field.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> . Specify a listener path for the APIkit router by entering `/api/*` in `Path` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify a listener path for the APIkit router by entering `/api/*` in *Path*.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

Author: OK! Thanks!

> . In the properties editor for the APIkit router, in *Router Configuration*, click `Add` to create a new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the properties editor for the APIkit router, in *Router Configuration*, click *Add* to create a new configuration.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
The *Global Element Properties* wizard appears.

> . In *API Definition*, select the path `api/api.raml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *API Definition*, select the `api/api.raml` path.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> . Delete the HTTP listener from `GET-Users-FLOW`.

Reviewer: If you are still talking about the MuleSoft HTTP Listener source, change "the HTTP listener" to "*HTTP Listener*

Author: OK! Thanks!

> . Delete the HTTP listener from `GET-Users-FLOW`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete *HTTP Listener*  from `GET-Users-FLOW`.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> . Delete the HTTP listener from `GET-User-By-Id-FLOW`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Delete *HTTP Listener* from `GET-User-By-Id-FLOW`.
```
```suggestion
. Delete the *HTTP Listener* from `GET-User-By-Id-FLOW`.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule>
    <apikit:config outboundHeadersMapName="outboundHeadersMapName" httpStatusVarName="httpStatus" name="Router" api="api/api.raml" />
    <http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<db:config name="Database_Config">
		<db:my-sql-connection host="localhost" port="3306" user="admin" password="admin" database="usersdb" />
	</db:config>
    <flow name="apiFlow">
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/api/*"/>
		<apikit:router config-ref="Router"/>
	</flow>
	<flow name="GET-Users-FLOW">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS]]></db:sql>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
	<flow name="GET-User-By-Id-FLOW">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config" >
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS WHERE :userIdParameter == userID]]></db:sql>
			<db:input-parameters ><![CDATA[#[{userIdParameter: attributes.queryParams.id}]]]></db:input-parameters>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

> === Step 3: Map API Resources-Actions to Flows

Reviewer: Is resource-action a term in APIKit? Resources and Actions?

Author: Not sure. Requesting assistance from SMEs.

Author: Yes! "Action" makes reference to the "HTTP method", and to the HTTP method only. So I guess 'action' is not confusing since it is explained in the pattern and in the table below this title.

By default, each APIkit flow adheres to a naming convention for routing purposes, characterized by the following pattern:

`action:\resource[:content-type][:config-name]`

[options="header"]
|===
| Name | Description
| `action` | HTTP method
| `resource` | HTTP resource
| `content-type` | Payload content-type (optional)
| `config-name` | APIkit router configuration name (optional)
|===

To retain the original flow names and map each API resource-action to them, override this behavior by following these steps:

> . Select *APIkit Router* to open the *Properties Editor*. In *Router configuration*, click *Edit*.

Reviewer: This is two separate steps.

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
The *Global Element Properties* wizard appears.
+
. In *Mappings*, click `Add` to create a new mapping configuration.
+
The *New Mapping* dialog appears.
. Use the drop-down to map the resources to actions.

> +

Reviewer: Use the drop-down to map the resources to actions > Map the resources to actions:

> * In the *Resource* drop-down, select `/users`.

Reviewer: Use the drop-down to map the resources to actions > Map the resources to actions:

In *Resource*, select...
Global for similar text

Author: @dhirsch1, do you mean that the "drop-down" should be deleted so the text reads:
 
The *New Mapping* dialog appears.
. Map the resources to actions.
+
* In Resource, select `/users`.

This change should be done globally.
Did I get it right?

Reviewer: Yes, but it should be "In Resources, `select /users.` (with Resources in bold)

From our style guide:

**UI elements**
When directing your audience to use the UI, use the label of each UI element exactly as it appears onscreen (excluding ending punctuation), even if the label violates our usual presentation and style guidelines.

Consider referring to UI elements by label rather than element type:

Before
. Select the Upload all my files now checkbox and click the Next button.

After
. Select Upload all my files now and click Next.

Author: OK! Let me tell you that "select" is not part of the resource. "Select" is the transitive verb and `/users` is the object.
Thanks!

. Use the drop-down to map the resources to actions.
+
* In the *Resource* drop-down, select `/users`.
+

> * In the *Action* drop-down, select `Get`.

Reviewer: `Get` > *Get*

Author: OK! Thanks!

> * In the *Flow* drop-down, select the flow that contains the get users action: `GET-Users-FLOW`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the *Flow* drop-down, select `GET-Users-FLOW`.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
* In the *Flow* drop-down, select `GET-Users-FLOW`.
+
* Click *OK*.
+

> . In *Mappings*, click `Add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Mappings*, click `Add`.
```
```suggestion
. In *Mappings*, click *Add*.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

Author: OK! Thanks!

		<apikit:flow-mappings >
			<apikit:flow-mapping resource="/users" action="get" flow-ref="GET-Users-FLOW" />
			<apikit:flow-mapping resource="/users/userbyid" action="get" flow-ref="GET-User-By-Id-FLOW" />
		</apikit:flow-mappings>
	</apikit:config>
    <http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<db:config name="Database_Config">
		<db:my-sql-connection host="localhost" port="3306" user="admin" password="admin" database="usersdb" />
	</db:config>
    <flow name="apiFlow">
		<http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/api/*"/>
		<apikit:router config-ref="Router"/>
	</flow>
	<flow name="GET-Users-FLOW">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS]]></db:sql>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
	<flow name="GET-User-By-Id-FLOW">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config" >
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS WHERE :userIdParameter == userID]]></db:sql>
			<db:input-parameters ><![CDATA[#[{userIdParameter: attributes.queryParams.id}]]]></db:input-parameters>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== Scaffolding Approach

> Follow the process at xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#step-1-design-your-api-specification[]. When completed, include an alternative workflow for scaffolding your API specification.

Reviewer: Seems funny not to have this as a step. I think it should be Step 1. Something like this:

Step 1: Follow xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#step-1-design-your-api-specification[] in the previous process.

Reviewer: For the lead in to the H2, maybe:

Design your API specification and then include an alternatibe workflow for scaffolding your API specification.

Author: I've found a workaround for this structure adding the "Before You Begin" section. I think this new section makes it easier for the reader to understand the steps for each approach.

== Scaffolding Approach

Follow the process at xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#before-you-begin[]. When completed, include an alternative workflow for scaffolding your API specification.

> With this approach you get the APIkit router configuration, the error handler, and the console flow out of the box. You also get a flow that maps each resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this approach, you get the APIkit router configuration, error handler, and console flow out of the box. You also get a flow that maps each resource.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

. In *Package Explorer*, right-click `/src/main/resources/api/api.raml`.
. Select *Mule*.
. Click *Generate Flows from Local REST API*.

> A new XML file with the same name as the API is created containing the scaffolded flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new XML file with the same name as the API is created. This file contains the scaffolded flows.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> NOTE: With this approach you get the APIkit router configuration, the error handler, and the console flow out of the box. You also get a flow that maps each resource.

Reviewer: Consider moving this to the intro to the approach and removing NOTE:

Author: I like it! Thanks!

=== Step 3: Reference Flows

> At this point, you have some options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do either of the following:
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> * Delete the scaffolded flows for each resource and map the original flows as mentioned in xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#step-3:-map-api-resources-actions-to-flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Delete the scaffolded flows for each resource and map the original flows as described in xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#step-3:-map-api-resources-actions-to-flows
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

[].

> * Remove any operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference instead. By choosing this option you introduce an additional layer of indirection, which can be inconvenient in some scenarios.

Reviewer: any operations > all operations? any operation?

What do you mean by an additional layer of indirection?

Author: Requesting assistance to SME.

Author: It's all operations. Making the necessary changes. 
The "layer of indirection" means that you put all operations in one flow, and you reference the other flows to the one that has the operations. I'll try to convey such meaning in a clear way.

* Delete the scaffolded flows for each resource and map the original flows as described in xref:apikit-workflow-convert-existing.adoc#step-2-map-api-resources-and-actions-to-flows[].

> * Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations, and such indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations, and such indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.
```
```suggestion
* Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option, you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations. This   indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.
```

> * Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations, and such indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.

Reviewer: This is unclear. Does one flow reference refer to the removed operations or do you have to create one flow reference for each operation?

> * Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations, and such indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove all operations from the scaffolded flows and add a flow reference with all the removed operations instead. By choosing this option, you introduce an additional layer of indirection because you reference all flows to the flow that has the operations, and such indirection can be inconvenient in some scenarios.
```

Reviewer: The first sentence is confusing. Can you say "add a flow reference that contains the removed operations"?

Author: Yes! That's a great rewording! Thanks!

----
<mule>
...
    <flow name="get:\users\userbyid:api-config">
		<flow-ref name="GET-User-By-Id-FLOW"/>
    </flow>
    <flow name="get:\users:api-config">
		<flow-ref name="GET-Users-FLOW"/>
    </flow>
</mule>
----

> * Transfer the content of the existing flows to the scaffolded flows that adhere to the routing naming convention. If the application is extensive, performing these modifications can be a laborious task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Transfer the content of the existing flows to the scaffolded flows that adhere to the routing naming convention. If the application is large, performing these modifications can be a laborious task.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule>
...
    <flow name="get:\users:api-config">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS]]></db:sql>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
	<flow name="get:\users\userbyid:api-config">
		<db:select config-ref="Database_Config" >
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[SELECT * FROM USERS WHERE :userIdParameter == userID]]></db:sql>
			<db:input-parameters ><![CDATA[#[{userIdParameter: attributes.queryParams.id}]]]></db:input-parameters>
		</db:select>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

> Consider the size and complexity of the application when deciding on the best approach.

Reviewer: This is important, and it should go where you introduce the two approaches.

Author: You're right! Thanks!

== Test Your API

> 

Reviewer: Can you give an example of a call that does this?

Author: Requesting assistance to SMEs.
Most probably, it's OK to send the reader to this [API testing](https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-apikit-new-content-structure/apikit/4.x/apikit-4-implement-rest-api#test-your-api-implementation).
Awaiting SME's confirmation.

Author: Yes, it is. Done!
Thanks!
